hello everyone so when we left off last
time we were creating chunks like this
and you can see they spawn in rather
slow and they don't spawn in very they
don't they don't spawn in with any kind
of preference you get this giant cube of
things when you first spawned I know a
lot of people wanted to do like a
loading screen where you load those up
but it's actually what I need to do is
is fix how they spawn in and similarly I
want to fix how they go away because a
lot of you have started to play around
with longer view ranges and walking
further distances like this and you've
started to realize that chunks are not
free when you get a lot of chunks in
your in your RAM then they really start
to bog you down and you start to go
slowly my computer is a bit of a beast
so it can handle quite a few but there
is an upper limit to how well unity
could handle objects and this is
actually why you can't just spawn in
cubes for every you can't just spun in
cubes for every for every voxel that you
need you have to spawn in chunks because
there's a maximum limit to the number of
objects that you know you can handle it
only works so well but the reason that
that i'm walking over like this right
now in front of you is because i wanted
to show you how it happens you can see
that we've got this giant map what we're
going to do in this episode is we're
going to make it so that a we only spawn
in circles and b we despawn as we wander
along and this should help a lot of you
for optimization so here in the world
script we have this thing where we
actually look for what chunks we want we
go through and we look in this square
around our camera to figure out whether
or not a chunk is
in whether or not we need to have a
chunk in a given area so the first thing
we're going to do is we're going to make
this a circle rather than a square there
are actually a lot of ways to do that
but the easiest way from my perspective
is just to shave it the way we do that
is we say if pause we just say vector3
delta equals pause minus transformed up
position and then we say delta y equals
zero and we say if delta magnitude is
greater than or equal to view range how
about just greater than do you arrange
and continue and that will spawn in a
circle and you can already see that
we've got a circle rather than a square
that's only a little bit of optimization
but you'll notice pretty quickly that
that actually really is a massive
optimization because you no longer spawn
in these giant lines you instead spondon
much more manageable small arcs the
other thing we need to do is d spawn
behind us so to do that we're going to
go through all of the chunks that we
have and despawn any of them that fall
with outside of our view range so a is
less than this is where we store all of
our chunk and chunks up chunks so all of
the junks sign up when they're created
they sign up for that particular list
and we're going to go through them and
delete them so
and we say vector3 delta equals pause
minus transformed opposition delta y
equals 0 and if delta magnitude is less
than view range and continue so if it's
within our view range we're fine but we
actually want to have a little bit of
wash here we don't want it to
continually despawn and spawn in chunks
just because the player is walking back
and forth like 1 meter so we're going to
go ahead and add in some chunk width
let's give ourselves three chunks worth
of sloshed and you can customize that if
you'd prefer that'll make it so that
it's pretty clear that if the player is
wandering away then then we'll get rid
of the chunk but if he's just kind of a
little bit gun and it might come back
we'll leave it in a ram so that we don't
have to recreate it this the next step
is of course to destroy the chunk now
here is the first of the gotchas I think
a lot of you did this and I think that
might be my fault because I think that
might be what I told you to do of course
what you actually need to do is that if
you just destroy the chunk then the
actual game object and the mesh and the
collision mesh all remain behind so
obviously that's no good the other thing
we need to think about is we've got this
chunk chunk stop count here we've got
this list of chunks now if we destroy a
chunk it won't actually remove it from
the list it'll leave a null spot in the
list now if you wanted to we could
remove it from the list here but there's
a better way to do that let's go over to
chunk and we're going to add in void on
destroy now this is a function that gets
called whenever the object is destroyed
and therefore we can just assume that
we're going to catch any destructive
event and we can do what we need to do
and in this case what we need to do is
I chunks remove this now the thing to
remember about this is that undestroyed
only happens when the object is
destroyed when you say destroy that
doesn't immediately destroy the object
it cues it up so it's going to be
destroyed between frames therefore we
don't have to do this a minus minus
thing that you might have done in the
past we don't have to do that because
destroy doesn't actually get called it
doesn't actually fulfill its destructive
purpose until after the frame is done so
we just basically mark them for
destruction and that's fine we don't
need we don't need to say a minus minus
because nothing is being deleted from
the list yet
alright so this is the sphere of
influence we've got let's go ahead and
walk this way let's go a sufficient
distance at least three chunks
significantly more than that because I
want to make it clear that way that they
have been vanishing by the way you can
put in debug logs about chunks being
destroyed if you'd like I didn't but
that doesn't mean that there's a bad
idea I just didn't do it it might be
nice to know the chunks are being
destroyed I suppose all right I think
that's far enough to prove the point so
as you can see we've got a nice circular
area now we have a little bit of wash
three tiles worth of wash to our Lee
that is behind us and that's as expected
so it's not a perfect circle because a
little bit of it remains visible behind
us now this works regardless of your
view range but you may have noticed that
if you have a very large view range you
have a significant slowdown as you spawn
in hundreds and hundreds and hundreds
and hundreds of chunks I'm not going to
deal with that today but I want you to
know that this game i'm making revolves
around people moving very fast so i am
going to be implementing a very very
fast chunk spawning system and and that
will be very useful because by that
point what we'll do is we'll go through
and we'll create all of the chunks at a
low level of detail web at first past
the instant they are required and then
we'll refine that as the player gets
closer and basically will have several
different view ranges and we'll level of
detail it alright well that's it for
today and next time maybe I'll try and
fix up the mech so that the so it's a
little bit more fun than wander around
with